Good morning and welcome to session 701,
Introduction to Digital Media.
My name is Steven Tone.
I'm a product manager on the
QuickTime product marketing team.
And we thought this would be a
great way to sort of kick off
the entire QuickTime and digital
media track by having sort of
an intro course that explains,
you know, just about everything you need
to know about digital media from
deinterlacing to 3:2 pull-downs.
Everything you need to do to take that
tape content you have and digitize
it and make it look really good.
And so we have a special guest today.
We have Hagie Van Dijk from
Discrete who knows just about
everything about QuickTime.
He's even an old
QuickTime guy from Apple.
And he will be able to take you
guys through for about an hour.
So, Hag.
Hagie Van Dijk Great.
Thank you.
Hi, everybody.
First thing I'd like to say
is thank you all for coming.
I appreciate coming down here and talking
about one of my favorite subjects,
which is digital media.
And also thanks to the QuickTime team
for allowing me the opportunity to speak.
So let's get right into it.
If we can switch to the machine please.
I want to talk a little bit about
what we're doing here today.
Get this started.
So what I want to talk about today,
sort of digital media basics,
real simple stuff is
how do we go from this,
which is our camera, you know,
taking pictures of stuff, very, you know,
well, what I will say,
used to be analog format, but, you know,
capturing pictures and assembling them,
putting them together
in very creative ways.
This is what a lot of
you are specialists at,
is really in producing this media.
So that's the next step.
So let's get to the next
real level about it.
And then ultimately, how do we get that?
And what do we do with it?
And where's it going?
Increasingly, more and more,
I have to play the
video to catch up here,
but we're starting to see that
we need to take our media.
You know, they used to say that
editing touches every frame.
Well,
now encoding really touches every frame.
And your media needs to be
distributed in a variety of ways.
So how do we sort of sort out all
of the issues and logistics with our
media as we take it from the camera,
where we put it in the camera,
to the computer?
And then ultimately, how do we get that?
Well, we have to collect those images,
sometimes in random, haphazard,
any sort of format ways,
produce them in exciting ways using
great creative tools like this,
and ultimately get them down into formats
that we might have in our pocket anytime,
anywhere.
So that's the basic premise
of my discussion today.
And again, hopefully we'll have some fun.
And we will take questions at
the end if people are interested.
We'll have some time for that as well.
So, okay,
I'd like to switch to the slides, please.
Let me find my little switcher here.
Capture, create, output, capture,
management, deliver, produce, deliver.
How many folks have been to
a trade show and seen these
words somewhere in the last 10,
15, 18 years?
Often times when we go to shows we see
words like this on big banners above
the convention center drawing us all in.
What does all this mean?
These are really terms that are
used to describe the media workflow.
So in order,
what I'm trying to do today is give
us a language that we can use to
discuss digital media and hopefully
that some of these basics will help
bring value to you as you attend some
of the other sessions here at WWDC 04.
So again, having these sort of
catch phrases capture,
create, output, they're stages in the
production workflow.
We use these terms to describe that.
What I'm going to be doing is just
using that as a frame of reference
for our discussion today and kind of
breaking up the media production process
into those three categories capture,
creation and output.
Just to kind of screw
things up a little bit,
I'm going to start in the
middle with the create part.
So create, how do we create media?
Well, we're already on the desktop
in the center thing and the way
that we create media is using the
very powerful QuickTime format.
So what is QuickTime?
There's obviously one of the
reasons why I took this talk,
I'll have to admit this,
is that how often have you
been on the receiving end or
been the customer who said,
you know,
what kind of content are you using?
And you either said or heard,
I have a quick time.
Okay, some of you have got to
have heard that before.
Well, that's sort of one of the things,
it's like I'm speaking
here in the United States.
QuickTime is a system software.
It is a core set of services
that allow applications to treat
media in a consistent fashion.
QuickTime is a time base,
a universal time base for
multiple synchronous events.
What that means is that
on my computer over here,
I can play a movie.
My computer over there,
That movie has audio and video,
maybe a few other kinds of
tracks associated with it,
but they play back in sync and then
I can play them in different places.
Now that's kind of a minor point
that we all take for granted,
but at one time, we had a real hard time
making things synchronize up.
The fact that QuickTime sort of
handles this as a master time base
is again something that we might
take for granted a little bit.
But the one that we really
want to talk about today,
the thing that we're all focused on,
and the element that we all deal with,
is the QuickTime file format.
That's really, again,
what we're talking about today.
So a QuickTime movie, as it's known,
is a container for your media.
That's the most important
thing to remember,
is that, again, QuickTime is the services
and its timing references,
but it's a container for media.
And what I mean by that is it's a
wrapper that lets your video frame
move through the production process.
And sometimes it's transcoded,
but that's the central idea
is QuickTime is a container.
It's not a codec in and of itself.
It has codecs,
and we'll get to that in just a second.
Rather, it's a container that
wraps around your media.
And kind of protects it as it
goes and is used by different
applications in different ways.
It is track based.
So again, QuickTime is a container
of multiple tracks.
We're all familiar with
an audio and video track.
But QuickTime has many
other exciting track types,
including MIDI tracks, text tracks,
sprite tracks.
We're always trying to get people to
use these other track types because,
again, QuickTime is such a technically
robust and fruitful foundation.
And fruitful foundation for media,
we have all these track types.
So we're just not used to using them.
So it's always good to be aware of that.
And again, obviously,
it's identified by the
.move file extension.
We're all used to what movies are.
So let's talk about this a little bit.
What is a QuickTime movie?
I realize this is really obvious stuff,
but again,
it's good that we all sort of repeat it,
have the same perspective on it.
Video Frame Size How tall
and how wide it is.
The actual frame is the reference there.
Frame Rate How many frames are
repeated one after another.
Codec or decompressor We'll
talk about that in a second.
Data Rate Let's talk about these things.
First of all,
frame size measured in height by width.
The frame size I started
with is 720 x 480.
That's a pretty big size.
I think the resolution
I'm here is 1024 x 768.
It's the pixel size.
A computer screen is made up of pixels.
Those are called pixel elements.
That's what that's short for, a pixel.
A computer display shows
video by turning on a pixel.
What they use is a value.
Already with digital video,
we have a resolution component.
How many colors do I see?
If we had a black and white
monitor with a pixel on it,
a pixel has two states.
That's white or black, off or on.
I get a black and white
image with a single pixel.
If I take that pixel and I make it 8-bit,
I multiply it, get an 8-bit word that I'm
using for that one pixel.
For a single color, I get 256 shades of
gray for that one color.
That's a lot of pixels.
I can see the color.
The color is made up
on a computer of red,
green, and blue.
We add those three colors together at
256 levels of gray for each of them,
put it all together,
and we get a few million colors
that we're used to on our display.
The main thing to realize is that, again,
computers display in pixels.
The 720 x 480, that's the measurement
that we're talking about.
Also, switching to the audio here,
audio has the same thing.
Audio has a sample size.
Much like the pixel,
the 8-bit pixel that I just talked about,
which is determining
the video resolution,
audio also has a sample size,
and that determines the dynamics.
For audio,
video quality is the difference
in loud and softness,
and that, again,
is controlled by your sample rate.
That should have been first.
So sample size, rather.
What I'm talking about is 16-bit audio,
8-bit audio,
determining that dynamics there.
So, for example,
if you have a sample rate or frame rate,
a picture--so we have a single frame,
and a movie is made up of multiple
frames that play back in order,
okay?
And those frames play
back at a specific rate.
So as pictures repeat, again,
you get frame rate.
We have some common frame
rates that the video works at.
My video camera here is NTSC.
That shoots at 29.97 or
30 frames per second.
In Europe, they have a different
electrical standard.
Which relates to a
different video standard.
And the video over there
moves at 25 frames per second.
Again, that's in a camera.
But what we're talking about
right now as a container is
just that video has a rate.
So these repeat after each
other at a certain rate,
okay?
Then the last thing is we
have--or here we have a codec.
So it's interesting.
A codec is a concept that
QuickTime brought us.
It means compressor, decompressor.
Okay.
Before, when we'd have a video frame,
we'd have to deal with
its uncompressed form.
So if I just take a picture,
that picture is about a meg or
the size of an old floppy disk.
I was gonna bring a floppy disk today,
but I realized some of us
wouldn't know what to do with it,
so I didn't bother.
But anyway, floppy disk is one meg.
So at uncompressed video,
it's 720 by 480, one meg.
If I run that at 30 frames per second,
that's 30 megs a second.
Okay.
So that's starting to be
a large amount of data.
Now,
QuickTime introduced this revolutionary
concept when it came out in 1992
called a codec or compressor,
decompressor.
What a codec does for you is it
takes that data and shrinks it down,
often ten times that original size.
It also decompresses it.
But because that codec is real time
or you don't notice that it's there,
then if you store your media,
if you store your media
in a particular codec,
it essentially is ten times smaller now.
Okay.
Now, we always have a tradeoff
with using codecs.
The tradeoff is image quality.
We want to preserve image quality.
And so for that reason,
there's really two types of codecs,
two general categories for
codecs and how they're used.
One of those is for the
production of media,
high data rate codecs,
where I want to take high quality
images and bind them together.
What I want to do is use a
high data rate codec for that.
Then there's distribution,
where I want to take my media and
I want to play it in as many places
as I can and get that media exposure.
Those are distribution codecs.
So there's two different times.
And again, the beauty of QuickTime is
QuickTime allows you to convert between
those codecs very easily and efficiently,
because again,
it's all within the QuickTime architects
that lets you to do that.
So the last thing about codec is again,
data rate or video size,
which is analogous to video quality.
Again, the amount of data that we can
allocate for a particular movie
would be considered its data rate.
And that's measured by per second.
So data rates are usually talked
about in megabytes per second for
production or megabits per second,
much smaller unit when we're
talking about distribution.
And again with audio.
So audio has a similar set of attributes.
Again, the sample size
determines its resolution.
Sample rate really determines
how good it sounds.
And the data rate is
very much tied into that.
We use less codecs.
There's really less codecs for audio,
more the codecs in audio are
either uncompressed for production,
and then we have distribution
codecs for audio.
All right.
Now what I'd like to do, I believe,
is show you just a quick
demonstration of what I mean there.
I'm going to hide this and bring up...
[Transcript missing]
If you are a beginner or someone
who could use a refresher course,
this is a must-see session.
Hage Van Dijk
When you have a series of movies,
so still image frames,
determine your frame rate,
and then over time, again,
multiple frames.
So this is going to turn for us and
show us that we have multiple frames.
So that's the basics of a movie.
Again, frame size, frame rate,
codec or format, and data rate.
So what I'm going to do is
bring up – just stop this,
hide that.
What I want to do is just
quickly bring up QuickTime.
And if I go to export this as
though I have QuickTime Pro,
Let's just take a look at the codecs
available to us inside QuickTime.
So here I am exporting
inside QuickTime Pro.
I have video and audio settings.
And if I bring up the
standard compression dialog,
you see that inside here,
QuickTime has a lot of different
codecs associated with it.
And so what are all of these things?
Well, these codecs are different ways of
compressing media for different purposes.
So for instance, if I'm doing DV,
I can select DV Pro or DVC Pro NTSC.
That's a DV codec.
It runs at 3.5 megabytes per second.
It's a production codec.
So I could take my media,
preserve the quality, assemble it.
What's really important about
production codecs is often they're,
what we say, fully – they're all iframe
or they're fully editable.
So as we start to get
into distribution codecs,
what we do is we start to pull tricks
that manipulate the image resolution and
all of the data isn't necessarily there
in a codec that is used for distribution.
For production codecs,
what we do is usually try and
preserve all of the image quality.
It's called an iframe.
And again, iframe formats are what
are used for production.
So again, JPEG or motion JPEG is a real
popular format for production.
Because every frame is fully editable.
And as we get into DV,
DV is a slightly compressed format.
But again, it's always editable.
Other choices that you see inside here,
I do have component video.
So again, production codecs.
I also have a few other ones in here.
I have MPEG-4 video.
And I also have Sorenson video.
So these are other codecs that
are used for distribution.
Again, much lower data rate codecs.
So two types of codecs.
Okay, I think we can switch back
to the other machine now,
please.
Okay, so that starts to get us
into the create part of it,
how we create stuff, again,
QuickTime movies.
Now let's go back out into the
real world and talk about how we
capture stuff and the formats that
we deal with when capturing video.
So, I have a DV camera.
It shoots at 720 x 480.
Again, if this was a PAL camera,
it also shoots at, again,
30 frames per second.
You've heard the term
SD or standard resolution,
standard definition.
What that means is that
it's a 4:3 aspect ratio,
very common standard definition,
and again, the size of that is 720 x 480.
You can think of SD as
like our television.
Again,
our television is a 4:3 aspect ratio.
640 x 480.
The reason why this is 720 x 480 is
because the pixels are not quite square.
Again,
now I'm on the edge of going less than,
a little more than video basic,
so I'm going to stay a little
bit away from pixel sizes.
But again,
just realize that you have SD 720 x 480.
That's the size that we're used to.
Now, there's a new frame rate in town,
and there's been a lot of buzz
over a format called HDTV.
Everyone says, you know, coming soon,
HDTV.
So, HDTV is a much larger size.
It's taking our SD size, 720 x 480,
and basically multiplying it by 4.
So, there's a variety of HD sizes.
The two main ones that we're
concerned about are the,
what we call 720,
which is 1280 x 720 in size,
and then 1080, which is, again,
a huge frame, which is 1920 x 1080.
So, a huge video frame.
Now, what's also interesting about HD is
that it's also higher resolution.
So, again,
it can be up to 10 bits per pixel,
which means that we can't even
display it on our computer screens,
all the color information at once,
because our computer
screens are only 8 bit.
So, dealing with HD has a whole bunch
of interesting attributes to it.
It's very big frame size.
It has a lot of color
information to capture.
And what's also interesting about
HD is that we're back into a situation
where with HD and HD production,
when you're building
a system around that,
often your video quality is
constrained by your data rate.
And a data rate for an HD signal is
up around 160 megabytes per second.
So, again,
a DV camera shoots a steady data
rate of 3.5 megabytes per second.
and HD at 160.
So again, a lot more data.
What's really interesting
about HD production is we
get more and more into it,
is that we start to learn
a lot more about HD.
HD is, you know,
technically a lot of resolution there.
But what we're starting to learn
a lot is that there's a lot of
issues associated with HD capturing.
So you want to go out
and shoot an HD movie,
all of a sudden you need a better
makeup person or a lot better makeup.
You need good lights.
All of the detail that film and
DV cameras was so forgiving about,
because we're in the initial
stages of HD production,
we're really suffering from that.
And so we have to blow a lot of smoke
on stage to create a lot of depth.
The images tend to look very flat.
And again, over time,
I'm sure that we'll work with
lenses and ways of softening that
up so it's a little more useful.
But today, HD is this huge frame size,
very hard to struggle with.
But once you get it,
obviously the quality is four times that.
Now, we also have frame rates that when
you make a movie on your computer,
the frame rate can be any
frame rate that you want.
Again,
the idea of starting with the idea of
a QuickTime movie as a frame size and
a frame rate is just to let you know
that those sizes are arbitrary and that
you can make them whatever you need to.
But out in the real world,
sizes are dictated to
you by the hardware.
So again, my camera shoots full size.
That size happens to be 640 by 480.
And so, again,
we're starting with the camera.
And again, the camera shoots full size.
That size happens to be 640 by 480.
Runs at 2997.
Now, film and HDTV run at
24 frames per second.
So that's a little bit different,
a little bit slower.
And actually,
the difference between 24 frames
per second and 30 frames per second
is really enough that that matters
about how the background looks.
That there's actually aesthetic
considerations made to film
shooting at 24 frames per second.
And how you can pan a
subject on a camera.
And the way that the camera is
panning the subject is by the
way that that looks versus video,
which runs at 30 frames per second.
Actually, it's interleaved.
And I'll get to that in just a second.
So it's actually showing
you 60 images per second.
So video is much higher resolution
than the 24 frame for film.
That's why, again,
video is very popular for sports,
any sort of content where you
need a lot of fast action.
Again, video resolution at 30 frames per
second allows you to capture that.
Okay?
So, again, out in the real world,
we have different formats.
We have SD.
We have HD.
We bring those in.
So what we need to do at a certain
point is capture that video.
Now, I used to say that this was...
an analog versus digital scenario,
and that it was real easy that
our cameras were always analog,
and that we'd just be digitizing that.
More and more, though,
it's really portable versus not.
That, increasingly,
our cameras digitize on-site
and already have converted that.
So this is a digital camera.
This is a DV camera.
It's a mini-DV camera.
It's very old.
I've dropped it about 14
times from places like this.
You can see I need a new one.
But the main thing to think-- that,
again, at--
So, at 720 x 480,
this is 3.5 megabytes per second,
so the video comes in.
When I capture this, okay,
it's digitized right on the camera,
so all I need to do when I capture
this is I take the FireWire output.
What I'm doing is I'm moving
that digital information between
my camera and my computer.
So,
you can think of this as a hard drive.
Again, I can push the video back,
but I'm just taking visual information
in a digital format and pushing
it back and forth with my camera.
So, DV is very easy to use because
the signal is already digital.
If you have an analog format,
we need to digitize that.
And again,
there's a variety of products to do that.
We have the IO products from AJA, again,
very high-end cards that
let you do component input.
If you have, say, a computer that's a
little bit more advanced,
you can use that.
We have a lot of products that
are producing on digital beta.
Digital BetaCam has a digital
output called an SDI jack.
And again, that SDI jack you can bring
into a DeckLink Blackmagic card,
again, an AJA box, and bring that in.
But at some point,
you need to take the video from
that outside world and bring it in.
And again, that's where you capture.
And again,
what we're talking about there is that
you have to be aware of the frame size,
the frame rate, the codec,
and the data rate of all
those different formats.
Thanks.
OK, so we talked a little
bit about capturing,
again, a variety of ways of capturing.
So once you've captured that video,
what do you do with it?
And again, we showed the video of
the different content.
There's a variety of applications.
What mainly happens in that
production phase is that you're
taking those QuickTime movies,
you're combining them all together,
either editing,
which is a temporal issue-- so you're
combining to create a story-- or
you're compositing them together.
The main point about production, though,
the creation of content,
from a technical perspective,
is that you end up mastering
that format at the same size.
Again, a common misconception is that
I'm just going to output that
video once I'm done to a small
resolution and be done with it.
And the point, really,
of having the discussion today is
just to let everyone know that,
really, increasingly,
you're going to go back to
that content and want to
deliver it in multiple formats.
So we must make a master
version of that content that,
again,
can be used in many different places.
So the best way to do that is to
produce it at full size and then to
take that master file and start to
convert it off to different formats.
Also, at some point down the road,
you're going to come back and want to
make another version of it-- a DVD,
another CD, or something like that.
So again, having a full ResMaster is
really important.
So when you're producing your content,
again, DV, I'd output a 720 by 480 movie,
30 frames per second, using the DV codec.
So at a high, again,
a distribution data rate--
or production data rate,
excuse me.
So, once we've gotten our video,
we've created the master,
now what we want to do is
start to distribute that video.
What formats do we take to communicate
our message out to multiple formats?
There's really a few different
sizes there and again,
a few different things that
happen with that video as we go
through the production process.
The first thing is we want
to make a DVD out of it.
That's the most popular kind of format or
very accessible format for making video.
Well, DVDs are interesting.
If we take our little formula here,
frame size, frame rate, codec, data rate,
the frame size of a DVD is set for us.
It's full size, 720 x 480.
So what's great about a DVD and
one of the reasons why it looks
good is we've preserved that
full frame size of our media.
Now, MPEG-2 is the codec.
So that is actually the compression
scheme when we talk about MPEG-2.
MPEG-2 is a compression scheme and that
has a data rate associated with it.
And the data rate that we most
commonly use for DVDs is 5.2.
So that's 5.7 megabits.
Again, a DVD has a data rate
choice of up to 10 megabits.
But I work with a lot of
compression products and what
happens is a lot of times people
have a short 20-minute movie.
They want to go ahead and
make a DVD of that and we're
all concerned about quality.
We want to get the highest
possible quality from our media.
So if I have less than an hour
and 15 minutes to put on my disc
and I'm compressing that to DVD,
I'm going to have to
compress that to MPEG-2.
What I'll often do is turn the data
rate quality up or what I would think
is to turn the video quality all the
way up to 8 or 9 megabits per second.
Go ahead and encode that media
and then go ahead and play it.
Well,
there's a little bit of a problem with
that and that what we've determined,
you know, sort of extensive testing,
has found that if you have a
real high data rate like that,
you're going to have an inconsistent
playback experience between
the different DVD players.
So increasingly, when I talk with people
about making DVD content,
I really urge them to try the data
rate of 5.7 megabits and to try and
use filtering or other processes
to preserve that video quality
as much as possible because what
we found is that a 5.7 megabit
DVD really plays well in all places.
Now as we move from DVD to other formats,
for instance web video,
the choices open up a lot more.
Again, with web video,
what we're trying to do is to
get the video to play smoothly.
That's where the data rate comes in.
But the sizes are rather arbitrary.
And really, when we're talking about
compressing for video,
we're looking at those same trade-offs.
So I have uncompressed
video that's full size.
The first trade-off that I can make
is the frame size to reduce that data.
And again,
common web sizes is 320 by 240.
What we're trying to do with web video
is really get a theatrical experience.
Whether or not we realize it,
we all want a theatrical
experience from the web.
So we're really trying to get
as full-size codec as we can.
My work experience has
been rather interesting.
I've been doing digital
video for 18 years.
And what we started off with was
a technology called QuickTime,
where everyone complained that they
were little postage stamp movies.
And what we did was we
worked really hard to,
with hardware assist,
get that to be full screen, full motion.
And we achieved that in about 1994,
the variety of products to do that.
Then what happened was about 1996,
the Internet became
more and more prominent.
And we started to get digital
video happening on the web.
And there was once a
time when Peter Hottie,
who was the QuickTime architect,
asked me to make him a 60K movie.
No, he wanted a 30K movie, 30K bit movie.
And I said, "Well, Peter, that's,
you know, going to be 60 by 90 and
not look too good." He says,
"I want a movie that played."
And so I made the movie.
He used it for the demo.
But what was interesting
about that was that,
you know,
I was working with a lot of people.
And what I was thinking about
that was that we've now,
we went to a software world.
And then for, after 1996,
what happened was slowly we've been
trying to get that frame size to grow.
So it's in stretching that frame size,
it's in codec developments
and increasing the data rate.
Can we actually stretch that
size out to be full size?
And we've almost achieved that.
But there was an announcement yesterday,
very significant announcement
for anyone making digital media.
Which is that Apple's going to include
a new H.264 codec in the next version
of the OS in the Tiger operating system.
Now what's really exciting about that is
that right now we can do a fairly good
job of stretching MPEG-4 to full screen,
full motion.
It's pretty difficult to get it.
But if we increase the
video by a factor of four,
that's going to look fantastic.
So we really look to
MPEG-4 to deliver that.
And we're going to use MPEG-4
to deliver a software version
of a codec that is full screen,
full motion.
Now, the interesting thing for me is
just about the time right now
that we're getting that together.
There's a new thing on the horizon.
And that is everyone's driving
around in their car with their Wi-Fi,
at least in Hong Kong.
They're watching video on
these portable formats.
So again, what's kind of interesting
about this is we work really
hard to make it full screen,
full motion on software.
And they invent a new platform for us.
So this is a Clie.
This is a TJ37.
And what this is is a 200 megahertz CPU.
So again,
what they've done is they took my
Beige G3 or so and they shrank it.
[Transcript missing]
Switch to my machine for a second please.
And so what this is just a picture
of relative frame sizes for you.
So again, the big white box is our
1920 by 1080 frame size.
The next box is our
1280 x 720 frame size.
Here's our 720 x 480.
Here's our 320 x 240 standard web size.
Here is our 160 x 120 cell phone size.
One of the ways we are reducing data
is by stretching the frame size down.
We can do the same thing with frame rate,
but we are a little less forgiving with
frame rate because that has to do with
temporal motion or motion over time.
Again, what you want to be aware of about
frame rates is that we have really
good eyes as far as seeing deteriorated
motion and motion resolution.
What we really want to do is
preserve motion wherever possible.
You have to really look at your
content to see how fast it is
moving to determine whether or
not you can switch the frame rate.
I kind of go back and forth on this
and I am currently in a personal
phase where I try to keep my frame
rates matching as much as possible.
I will make my frame rates 29.97 or 24.
You can hit 15 or 7 at lower bit rates,
but again, the movie gets choppy.
The nice thing about that is, again,
with QuickTime as the technology,
that choppiness will
at least be consistent.
You won't get snappy video,
you will get choppy video.
That is why I am an
expert in choppy video.
Great, we can go off of there.
Back to the video.
Okay, so actually I want to do a little
bit of a demo now and just talk
a little bit about distribution.
There's going to be some seminars.
We can go actually back to my machine.
There's going to be some
sessions during the week about
[Transcript missing]
So I'm going to be using Cleaner as
an application to sort of talk for a
minute about the process of distribution
and how to get the most out of it.
The reason why I want to use Cleaner
here is because we're going to
be talking about pre-processing.
When you spend your time
creating your content,
you don't really want to think about
color values and things like that.
You really want to have a time
when you're being creative
and assembling your media.
But at a certain level,
you have to come back and
take a look at that media in
terms of distribution and go,
"Okay, now I need to distribute this.
I need to shrink this thing
down many hundreds of times
smaller than its original.
How do I do that?" And that's
where compression applications
offer you these pre-processing.
So the first thing, again, video,
when it's shot, it's shot in fields.
So we talked about this before where
you actually have alternating fields.
The reason for that is
that when we started,
remember that a computer
display has a pixel on it.
A single pixel is going to shoot
that always on when you see
that display on your computer.
Well, a television works a
little bit different.
It's a little more arcane, if you will.
A television works by
scanning every line.
It draws one line in a 30th of a second.
Then it goes back and draws
another line in a 30th of a second.
That's called interlaced video.
Again, a field that's made up of
these alternating fields.
They're scanned even and odd
depending on your video format.
So DV, it's even, odd, even, odd, even,
odd.
And again,
that alternating back and forth
happens at the point of the camera.
So all of your video resolution is
caught in that alternating field.
And when you digitize that video,
those alternating fields
are also captured.
And if you produce your video
and output it at full resolution,
those alternating fields are
maintained through that process
when you're doing video.
So what happens is when you get to the
computer screen to view that video,
all of a sudden you have a
problem because the computer
video doesn't display that way.
It's always on.
And if you're going to show
that frame with both of those,
you're going to see a difference there,
the interlaced difference
in what that motion is.
And if you're not careful with
how you process that video,
all of that difference in motion,
is going to be interpreted
by the computer,
which doesn't know what it is, as noise.
It's going to create a,
giving you a very blotchy outcome.
So again,
one of the things that we have to
do when we take video in is start to
deinterlace it or reduce that data
down by taking away one of those fields
and thus capturing that motion smooth.
And we're going to use Cleaner
to see that in just a second.
So again,
video alternating and deinterlacing
is really critical to data reduction,
but it's also critical to getting
a good look for your web video,
because again,
those motion artifacts will be
interpreted as noise for you.
Another thing is that
if you're using film,
film is shot at 24 frames per second.
There's a problem with film though,
if I edit my film on video,
video runs at 29.97,
so that's a different frame rate.
So there's a difference in the
frame rate that film is shot
at 24 and the video at 29.97.
So how do we deal with that?
Well, there's a very standard
process called telecine,
which is the process of moving 24
frames per second video up to 30.
So it's not like the video case
where every field is interlaced,
you basically have the 60th of a field.
What's happening with telecine video
or video that originated on film
is we get two progressive frames,
so progressive frame,
just the whole frame is captured.
We get two of those and then
we get three interlaced frames.
So we're going to use the telecine
process to make up that difference
and it's that difference of five
over four over time in the telecine
process that makes up that 29.97.
So we've taken four frames,
mapped them to five frames and
added three interlaced frames
and two progressive frames.
So that's where we hear that term
three-two pull up or pull down.
Again, it can be two-three or three-two
depending on where you start,
but the main thing to realize is
that there you have two progressive
frames and three interlaced frames.
Now when you're in that situation
and you apply a deinterlaced filter,
what you're doing is only,
you're only doing the appropriate thing
for those three frames because it's mixed
of progressive and interlaced frames.
Deinterlacing all of that is
going to cause a deterioration
on those two progressive frames.
So what we need to do when we go
back to web video is we need to
do a process called intellicine,
which is to remove that
three-two pull down back to
that 24 frames per second video.
So one of the really what
I consider the pinnacle of web
quality is the Apple trailer site.
The team in Cupertino does a
fabulous job encoding those.
And if you look at them,
they're all 24 frames per second.
And again,
the key to that was that those,
all those movies have gone
through an intellicine filter to
restore that original frame rate.
Never know where your media
is going to come from today.
So again, restoring that original 29,
the original 24 from
your 29.97 is important.
If you're doing stuff in PAL,
it's just a 1% raise and lower.
So it's a little bit different.
They don't go through quite
the intricate process.
The telecine process in telecine is
really only relevant to 29.97 video.
Okay, so again, as I was talking about,
the next thing is how to process
the video so that it looks good.
We're taking uncompressed video that's
this big and we need to restore that.
And we're running through
a hole that's this small.
So we want to do every single
thing we can to preserve
the quality of that video.
So again, throwing off the frame rate,
making the frame size a lot smaller.
Well, that helps.
There goes half the data.
Deinterlacing that video takes
away half that resolution and
actually helps us reduce that data.
But we're left with a variety of other
techniques to preserve that video.
And that's where you're going to
see some sessions on pre-processing
because the key to good looking
web video is pre-processing.
And what I'm really talking
about now here is web video.
When we talk about DVD,
we're not going to do a lot of
processing to our DVD because
it's already full size 720 by 480.
The number one thing that I see people
running into with DVD production is
they need to go from their interlaced
format to a progressive format.
They're going to be playing DVD that
will always be played back on a computer.
The only problem with that is that when
you take your full size interlaced video,
and you deinterlace it
to make it progressive,
you've eliminated half the
resolution vertically on that
and you've softened that video.
So the one thing that you need
to be aware of when you're making
DVDs when moving from interlaced to
progressive is your videos can go soft.
Now there is some tricks that
you can do with the green channel
and balancing that stuff out.
But just remember that, again,
video goes soft.
So what you need to do is,
you can go to the So I'm going
to walk through that now a little
bit with Cleaner and talk about
what some of these pre-processing
principles are and how you use them.
So I'm going to use my
Bubbles movie for this.
[Transcript missing]
This is a before and after view of my
movie before I actually compress it.
Let's look at the before view.
Again,
I've intentionally picked this piece of
media because it's got a lot of motion.
You'll see these sort of horizontal
lines in my video in this before section.
What those are is because what we're
seeing is a frame of video of a
bunch of bubbles rushing up at us.
So the whole thing is moving.
And again, all those interlaced lines,
what those are is the difference in
movement between that 60th of a frame.
So this is where I'm talking about
deinterlacing your video in order
to get the best possible look.
Because again, if I were just to compress
this without deinterlacing it,
look what I'm feeding the encoder.
It's a mess.
It's never going to get
above this high-level noise.
It's never going to get above this
high-level noise to get me any
sort of picture of an image at all.
So again,
deinterlacing as the first step to
creating a delivery for your media,
an output platform,
is extremely critical because
with all that otherwise,
you're going to get all
that noise in there.
Now, cleaner is kind of interesting.
Cleaner has a feature
called adaptive there.
You see now if I go to the output also,
conversely,
notice how much that cleans up,
particularly this group
right here in the center.
See how much just pulling
away has a lot of noise.
Half of that field really cleans that
video up to get that started there.
So again, deinterlacing,
probably the most important
filter when making web video.
Because again,
you're able to decrease that video,
but you're really preserving the size,
the look of this video.
Adaptive deinterlacing.
If I have a Batman shot,
everything's at an angle.
I have lots of diagonal
lines in my video.
And I were to take a picture of that,
I'm going to have to do
a lot of diagonal lines.
and in video and I were
to deinterlace it.
Because I had diagonal lines in there and
I take away that half every other line,
what I'm doing is starting to
introduce jaggies into my output.
Little jagged lines there.
Well, with an adaptive deinterlace,
you're only deinterlacing
pixels that move,
so you're only going after
these artifacts to get rid
of that motion stuff to,
again, prepare your video for
a distribution codec.
So again, adaptive deinterlace,
very important.
You'll notice that Cleaner
has a Sharpen filter in there.
That Sharpen filter is just
to brighten things up again,
because codecs inherently
dull our content.
So again having that Sharpen
codec in there is very helpful.
And what we have is a
concept of noise reduction.
So with all of your video,
when you go down to lower data rates
you're going to be using noise reduction.
Noise reduction filters are very,
very cool.
What they do is they'll take the edges,
they'll preserve those edges,
and they'll apply blur
to everything in between.
So the areas of less detail that our
eyes are much more forgiving for,
again,
can see this noise reduction filter.
It helps scale the video down very well.
So again, how to use noise reduction is
really keep it on mild or moderate,
depending on how much motion you have.
Again, we'll do that.
The next filters just to
talk about for image quality,
we have a few of them that
you need to be aware of.
First thing is Gamma.
There is a difference in Gamma
between the Mac and Windows platforms.
There is a difference in gamma
between the Mac and Windows.
A Mac computer is darker
than a Windows display.
If you are always producing your
media on one platform on a Mac and
you play it for your Windows friends,
they might say that it is
a little bit dark for them.
The way that we handle that when
producing content for the web is
to add a gamma filter for that.
What a gamma filter does is just
brightens up those mid-tones.
You can see here, I'm just going to turn
these off for a moment.
"Just update that.
So if I add just a little bit,
I'll turn the gamma filter off.
And again,
it's just going to take that and
brighten that up just a little.
Not too much.
Go the other way.
[Transcript missing]
The Cleaner has two other very
important filters in it that are used
for making the video really look the
level of quality that we're talking
about on the Apple Trailer site.
That is the concept of
black and white restore.
So what these filters do here for you is,
again, they'll take and they'll
actually regenerate those colors
for black and white for you.
So this is significant because, again,
it's going to really ground
your – it's going to give your
content good color values.
So you might say, "Well,
there's not a lot of black in this video.
Why would I use a black restore
video on content like this?" Well,
if we notice,
if we bring up the amount of
black restore in the video image,
you'll see that this blue that's
all over this content really
does have elements of black,
that there's a darkness
associated with this whole
background inside this video clip,
and that I can sharpen that
up or increase the clarity.
If you will, of that kind of stuff using
a black restore filter.
So how you actually use these
filters is you'll notice they
have a smoothness control.
So if I just turn on the black
restore and then turn this way up,
you're going to see
that at a certain level,
it's going to start to get very blotchy.
So you'll notice in here it's starting
to get – so black is being added and
just regenerated into all these areas.
use a smoothness control here.
What I'm able to do is just get a
little bit of softness and get a
little bit of edge and nice lift to
that and really get those colors back.
So to get good contrast in that video,
I can go ahead with a lot of
smoothness and softness and bring
up that with that black filter.
Same is true for the white restore.
So again, same principles apply that all
colors have an element of white
in them and that by regenerating
this black and these white colors,
we're able to really
preserve those color values.
So that when you go ahead
and compress that video,
you get the highest possible output.
So we call this media mastering.
The other thing is to realize
that when you do audio,
again, for audio formats,
audio is an interesting case.
For a long time,
starting with QuickTime 3,
we had audio codec called
the QDesign Music Codec.
So QDesign was a very good codec for
reducing the data rate of our video,
but QDesign did have an unfortunate
artifact associated with it.
It would produce a phase shift at
high – at the upper frequencies.
Basically,
it would make your audio sound –
So you get a swishing sound
with the QDesign codec.
Now, that was followed up by
the very popular MP3 codec.
And MP3 was available, I believe,
with QuickTime 4.
It came in and, again,
MP3 – very popular, very portable format.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so I'm starting to wrap up here
and I really wanted to finish
again where I started a little bit,
which is this concept of video.
What is digital video?
Well, digital video is a quick
time movie or other formats,
but it has a frame size and a frame rate.
These frame rates are really,
and a lot of the size is
controlled by the codec,
and ultimately that codec has
a data rate associated with it,
and that data rate really is what
determines the quality of your video.
Great, can we switch back to
the demo machine please?
So I wanted to show you that again,
what we've talked a
little bit about here,
we've introduced this idea of
this great new H.264 codec and
what's going to be happening there.
And really want to talk a little bit
about some of the trends here in media.
So one of the exciting things that
we have here inside Cleaner is we
have the ability to go out using
the Konoma exporter to the Palm OS.
Again, Palm OS devices are extremely
good at playing video.
I have my little Clia here that,
let's go ahead and play this,
and I think more and more what
people are seeing is that our
video is on our cell phone,
that we can take pictures
with our cell phone now.
So it's just a matter of time
before our cell phones will be
able to actually display video,
moving pictures.
Okay, so we've got the single frame,
now we need to get multiple frames.
There's also a really exciting
component to this technology,
well there's two other components.
First of all,
there's a thing called Blur.
802.11,
wireless technology that will be able
to allow me to view this video anywhere.
And increasingly we're
seeing more and more,
you probably have it at your house,
but increasingly down at Starbucks.
You can go to places,
just last week it was
announced in Washington,
D.C., they're actually deploying Wi-Fi in
a whole neighborhood under city blocks.
So more and more we're going to be
able to take media wherever we want.
Now, if you capture a video
on your cell phone,
and you're using your phone,
you're going to be able
to take it to your home.
Realize that the resolution is this size,
it's going to be 160 by 120.
So we're going to have an interesting
period of time when we try and take
that video and scale it up to full size.
But again,
we're going to have very exciting
codecs like H.264 that will
help us make that transition.
So again, what's very exciting about
that is what will happen,
you know, where this media is going.
And increasingly,
what we'll see is that you'll produce
your video in these high-end formats,
perhaps in a lot of different formats.
Perhaps HD, SD, very high data rate,
a lot of creative stuff
happening with that.
You get to a point where you
need to distribute that media.
And oftentimes you're going to
distribute it in multiple formats.
You'll make a DVD of it,
you'll make a web movie of it,
you'll make a cell phone version of it.
And again, the idea here is that we're
distributing this in multiple formats.
So you're going to make
a master version of that.
And you're going to then, from that,
derive all of these other versions
at these lower data rates.
And then you're going to make a version
of that that's much smaller sizes.
Okay.
We can go back to the demo machine,
to the presentation machine, please.
So again,
we've hit some basics today and just
sort of discussed what QuickTime was.
QuickTime is a container for your
media that's extremely important
that it's not just a codec,
it has codec attributes
associated with it.
This is – the reason why I have to
draw that contrast is there's some
other formats in the world where you
don't have this level of technical
complexity and this amount of tools
and really rich features to use,
where the codec is the
name of the format.
So I shouldn't have to say what they are,
right?
Thank you.
Okay, good.
So again,
QuickTime is really codec-based.
So it really gives you that frame size,
that frame rate, codec and data rate.
And then again,
data rates determine how you produce it,
how that image quality looks,
and that we have different codecs for
distribution than we have for production.
And again, the codecs for distribution
are very small,
the codecs for production are very high.
We have all these frame rates,
different sizes of video that we
collect from all over the world.
We bring those all into our – we
digitize those on our computers,
assemble those,
and then output them at still more
smaller sizes in different formats.
So again, lots happening with the media.
I think that we're going to
now take some questions if
people are interested in that.
And again,
what we do is we have – first of all,
who to contact.
If you have any questions about
the topics that we've talked
about today or just QuickTime and
QuickTime technologies in general,
we're happy to answer them.
And again, we're happy to answer any
questions that you may have.
So again, we're happy to answer any
QuickTime and
QuickTime technologies in general.
There's a few very important
names you should know.
First is Guillermo Ortiz.
He's a developer relations
person for QuickTime.
And again,
wonderful key person to know for any
of your questions you have regarding
QuickTime and the media track here.
In addition, my colleague Steven.
Steven is available.
He's the product manager for QuickTime,
available for questions and follow-up.
And then myself, I'm Hegy Van Dyke.
I'm available here at Discrete.com.
And my role is I'm an
applications analyst.
So I'm really a person who
works with all phases of media
production and delivery and actually
product development and delivery.
I work for a company called Discrete.
At a certain level,
we're known for a product called Cleaner,
which is a kind of transcoding
tool designed for compressing
video from one format to another.
But Discrete also has a real legacy and
a history in high-end media production.
We have a product called the Flame,
which is an SGI-based real-time
independent resolution system
designed to give you very
high-quality motion effects.
And again,
what's interesting about the Flame is
those deal with still image formats.
So again, large stuff.
And we're going to take some questions,
I believe.